# CG#6 Ray Tracing, Radiometry-Based

In Whitted-Style Raytracing, we made many wrong assumptions which will make the final result looks not that photo-realistic. The radiometry knowledge helps us to precisely control some of the factors in the rendering process.

1. TOC
{:toc}

## Lighting Physics
### Definitions

1. <u><b>Def</b></u> (Radiant Energy) Radiant Energy ($Q[J]$) is the energy of electromagnetic radiation. We can think of it as the total # of hits of rays onto the object.
2.  <u><b>Def</b></u> (Radiant Flux) Flux ($\Phi[W = \frac{J}{s}][lm]$) is the energy of electromagnetic radiation passed _per second_.\
Through the definition above we know that $\Phi = \frac{dQ}{dt}$, and since the flux is the energy per second, it is also called **power**.

Bringing the radiometry into 3D space, we need to have a way to calculate space, and that is what **solid angle** is for.

3. <u><b>Def</b></u> (Solid Angle) The solid angle of a region on a sphere is defined as $\Omega = \frac{A}{r^2}$, where $A$ is the area of the region. \
<u>Note</u>: Accroding to the definition, a complete sphere has solid angle $4\pi$. \
<u>Note</u>: We use _steradian_ as a form unit of solid angle, but in fact the unit should be 1.
4. Differential Solid Angle\
If we are treating an extremely small solid angle, which only covers an extremely small region on the sphere, we are actually treating a direction from the center of the sphere. We can use $(\theta, \phi)$ to determine a direction in the sphere if we define an equator and an axis normal to the equator along the radius.\
We only need the area of the small region, and $r^2$ where $r$ is the radius, so that we have the differential solid angle of the (extremely small) region.\
Using polar coordinates, assume that we have moved $d\phi$ over the equatorial section and $d\theta$ along the normal axis. Thus it will make a rectangular region on the surface of the sphere. The vertical span is $rd\theta$. The horizontal span is $r\sin\theta d\phi$. Thus, $dA = (rd\theta)\cdot(r\sin\theta d\phi) = r^2\sin\theta d\theta d\phi$.\
And thus, $d\omega = \frac{dA}{r^2} = \sin\theta d\theta d\phi$.


6. <u><b>Def</b></u> (Irradiance) Irradiance is the 2D density of radiant flux. Thus it is defined as $E(\rho) = \frac{d\Phi(\rho)}{dA}[\frac{W}{m^2}][\frac{lm}{m^2} = lux]$, where $\rho$ is the query point.\
<u>Note</u>: Irradiance is a property for a surface. Here $\rho$ is a point(query point), so it is an extremely small surface where $A$ is almost 0. \
<u>Note</u>: When calculating the area of the region, we are calculating the projected area which is perpendicular to the light beam. The equivalent area should actually be $A\cos\theta$, and this is what the **Lambert's Law** is saying.
7.  <u><b>Def</b></u> (Intensity) Intensity is the solid angular density of flux. Thus it is defined as $I(\omega) = \frac{d\Phi}{d\omega}[\frac{W}{sr}]$.
8.  <u><b>Def</b></u> (Lambert's Law) $E = \frac{\Phi\cos\theta}{A}$, where $A$ is the original area of the region, and $\theta$ is the angle between the surface and the perpendicular direction of the light.
9.  <u><b>Def</b></u> (Radiance) Radiance, or **Luminance** describes the change of ray over direction, and is defined as the flux per solid angle per unit area. We can also use the following definition.
10.  <u><b>Def</b></u> (Radiance) Radiance is the solid angle density of irradiance. $L(\rho, \omega)$ = $\lim_\limits{\Delta \rightarrow 0} \frac{\Delta E_\omega(\rho)}{\Delta \omega}$ = $\frac{dE}{d\omega} [\frac{W}{m^2 \cdot sr} = nit]$, where $\omega$ is the direction of the ray, and $\rho$ is the query point.\
<u>Note</u>: If we trace back to all the definitions, $L(\rho, \omega)$ = $\frac{\partial^2 \Phi}{\partial\Omega\partial A\cos\theta}$, which means radiance is radiant energy per unit time, per solid angle, per unit area perpendicular to direction $\textbf{n}$ at point $\rho$.

Till now we should have a complete mind of the relationships between the physics definitions.
## Rendering Equation
1. <u><b>Thm</b></u> (Rendering Equation) For a given point $\rho$ and the given direction $\omega_0$, the radiance $L_o(\rho, \omega_o)$ is determined by:\
$L_o(\rho, \omega_0) = L_e(\rho, \omega_0) + \int_H^2 f_r(\rho, \omega_i \rightarrow \omega_0)L_i(\rho, \omega_i)\cos\theta d\omega_i$\
where:
- (1) $L_o(\rho, \omega_0)$: the outgoing or observed radiance
- (2) $L_e(\rho, \omega_w)$: the emitted radiance (this term is not 0 only when $\rho$ is on a emissive lighting source)
- (3) $f_r(\rho, \omega_i, \omega_0)$: the scattering function with input $\rho$ and direction $\omega_i \rightarrow \omega_0$.
- (4) $L_i(\rho, \omega_i)\cos\theta d\omega_i$: incoming radiance on $\rho$ from the direction $\omega_i$, where $\theta$ is the angle between incoming direction and the normal of $\rho$.
- (5) $\int_H^2 f_r(\rho, \omega_i \rightarrow \omega_0)L_i(\rho, \omega_i)\cos\theta d\omega_i$: integral over all directions in the top half hemisphere(the bottom does not contribute).
3. 
## Numerical Integration

## Monte Carlo Rendering
